---
layout: page
title: American Cancer Society
---

This year hundreds of thousands will hear the words "you have cancer," and there is a good chance that some of them will be people that we know and love.  I have chosen to fight back against this disease and to help make a difference by supporting the American Cancer Society's mission to eliminate cancer as a major health problem.  The American Cancer Society (ACS) aims to save lives by preventing cancer, and diminish suffering from cancer, through research, education, advocacy, and service.

Please help me help the American Cancer Society!

Join me in the fight against cancer by supporting my efforts to climb to Mount Everest Base Camp (EBC) in memory of family and friends who have lost their battles with cancer.  I will depart for Kathmandu on April 2 and begin my trek to EBC, elevation 17,462 feet, on April 15.  I will then continue onward and upward to Kala Patthar at 18,192 feet.  That's a total climb of 9,492 feet from Kathmandu over a period of 11 days.  Then begins the trek back down to Lukla, elevation 9,000 feet, for a flight back to Kathmandu.

I am soliciting donations for the American Cancer Society in support of cancer research with my trek to EBC.  Your donations will support me in this grueling endeavor.  I will be trekking a total of 9,492 vertical feet over the course of this 19 day expedition.  For those who would donate $0.01 per foot of elevation climbed, I will carry the name of your loved one to EBC and place a prayer flag at EBC and at Kala Patthar in memory of all those who were memorialized through the donations.

I hope you will support my efforts by donating to the cause.  I have provided a "Donate" link at the top of each page; any and all donations are greatly appreciated, though I do request that, if you are able, you contribute a minimum of five dollars.  If you cannot contribute that much, even the smallest donations make a difference.

You can find out more about the American Cancer Society's involvement in this event on "the ACS website":http://main.acsevents.org/site/TR/TeamACS/TACSFY10National?px=26487849&pg=personal&fr_id=27330
