---
layout: page
title: Journal
---

h2. E-Mail: April 4, 2012 09:14 AM GMT (05:14 AM EDT)

I'm at the hotel in Kathmandu and they have a business center so I'm using their computer. Everything works fine. When I try to use my verizon droid with WIFI I can't get to the web site. I puts me in to Zenexter shows your name and GITHUB etc.   Weird I'm also having trouble getting to my email with the droid but not the computer. right now I'm not very happy with verizon and the way they set me up with this global phone. It sucks!! Unless things change it looks like I will have to call you everyday for my updates and the pictures will have to come off this piece of crap phone they sent me.

I'm in Kathmandu. Arrived yesterday at 2:30pm. All went well with the flights. The people for Himalayan Glacier picked me up at the airport and took me to my hotel. Today was a day of sightseeing and preparation. I leave thurs morning at 5am for my flight to Lukla and begin the trek. On little tid bit of info. The other people I was going with backed out over the last couple weeks so I"m going it alone. They have given me a guide and sherpa as my porter and all set to leave in the morning. Not as excited about doing it alone as opposed to walking with a group. They me the option to leave on Friday with another group but they were taking a faster and tougher route then what I signed up for so decided to go it alone.  Nor sure what updates I will be able to provide as the trek moves along. My droid is no help at all so it looks like phone calls at $2.89/minute. Txt are only .50 to send and .05 for me to receive, but hard to txt with the old fashion flip phone with the numbers like on the old fashion phones, so you have to have to hit the same key three times to get to the last letter ie. the number 2 for abc etc......

regards  
lou

h2. E-Mail: April 7, 2012 06:31 AM GMT (02:31 AM EDT)

Sorry  there has been no postings yet but my global phone stopped working. Just died and can't revive it not even doing cpr on it. So no communication capabilities until today. This is day 3 of the trek. I'm in Namche Bazaar. Rest and acclamitazation day after the grueling 8 hour trek for Pakding. Itinerary and brochure says 6 hours, wishfull thinking. Maybe they don't want to scare people away. I'm at an internet cafe in Namche you I have access to a computer.

h3. Day 1

the flight into LUKLA was awesome and landing on that 1600ft remote air strip in the mountains was really cool. I was sitting in row 1 right behind the pilot & co-pilot, no door on these planes. The pilot climbs into his seat through a side window. I was able to hold my camera about their heads and record the landing. pretty cool. Once we landed it was get the gear and start treking to Pakding. Took 4 hours of some pretty tough uphill and downhill trekking. Rested in the afternoon and got to bed early for the long day tomorrow. Food by the way is really good. Rice, vegetables, and great soups.

h3. Day 2

Start the trek at 8am for what turned out to be an hour trek to Namche Bazaar. This was the most grueling thing I have ever done. Other than a 1 hour stop for lunch at a tea house it was 7 hours of constant uphill rather steep climbing  on trails that were mostly stone steps. I have probably lost 5 lbs in the last 2 days. I'm at 11,280ft. Pretty cold. Glad to have a good warm sleeping bag because no heat in the sleeping areas.

h3. Day 3

Rest and acclamatization day. Short trek today to an observation area. This allows us to climb up several hundred feet more and go back down to sleep in Namche and continue to trek upward. Climb high sleep low to help acclimate. At the observation point we got our first view of Everest along with the other peaks on each side of her. Because of the high winds at the summit, blowing snow was creating clouds of snow coming of the peak. Everest is still a long way off but getting the first look was awesome.

Hopefully I will have some internet access at the next stop. I'm doing fine even though each day pushes you to the limit and then get up the next day and start over again.

Love and peace to all  
Lou

h2. E-Mail: April 17, 2012 11:53 AM GMT (07:53 AM EDT)

Terrible to be without a phone. I have internet access so will you post the following updates:

h3. Day 4

After our day of rest to acclimatize we're off to KumJung. Clear skies today and the views are already spectacular.
climbing is very steep with much heavy breathing with every step. We came this high mountain airstrip, dirt runway used
by single engine planes. It's the Syanboche airstrip. Reached Kunde hospital which a hospital for the sherpa people which
was founded by Sir Edmund Hillary in 1966. When he summitted Everest in 1953 he saw how poor the area was and how
critical the Sherpa people were an expiditions to Everest. I met a group of 10 Germans there as I visited the hospital. All are
going to BaseCamp and 3 actually attemping to summit in May. The leader of the group gave me his Blog address so I can
follow along in their to summit. Arrived at Kumjung at 2:30 pm. Unpacked my bags and my guide took around the village.
Visited a monastery which has a Yeti scalp and for a fee (of course) they will open this cabinet and allow you to photograph
the scalp, which of course I did. Went back to my room for a nap. Today is April 8th. Easter Sunday back home. My thoughts
are with everyone back home. Tomorrow we're off to Phorse Village.

h3. Day 5

Trekking to Phorse Village is another tough day. 6 hours of steep climbing. Everyday holds spectacular views as we
continue to climb. Not sleeping so good as we climb. Slept for 3 hours last night then it was like just lying there waiting for the
time to go by. We reach the Village so we are now at 13,200ft.

h3. Day 6

Left Phorse Village at 8am as we trek to Dingboche. When I got up at 6am it was snowing and the guide said we will
wait and hopefully the storm will pass which it did and we set off at 8am. We climbed for about an hour and then a front moved
in really quickly. I mean you could see the weather change right before you. We trekked the rest of the day in clouds. Reached
Dingboche at 4pm totally exhausted. Got in my sleeping bag and stayed there till it was time for dinner at 6:30pm. Food by the
way is pretty good. Soups are really good, plenty of different rice dishes, potatoes fixed everyway possible. Breakfast I have
a cheese omellete and toast. So things are not so bad from a food standpoint. When we started the trek my guide said "on the
way up I will tell you what to eat so you will not be sick and on the way you can choose whatever you wish on the menus. So
all rice dishes, Noodle dishes of all kinds, and plenty of potatoes. Sleeping at 14,300 ft here in Dingboche.

h3. Day 7

Dingboche rest and acclimatization day. I'm really tired, this is really a gruelling pace. A rest day also means a hike to
acclimate. So we trekked for 3 hours to 15,300ft and then back down to Dingboche at 14,300 to hang out for the rest of the day,
and rest.

h3. Day 8

Left Dingboche at 8am for our trek to Duglha which is at 15,090ft. This is one of the rather short trekking days but still
very intense. We trek for 3 1/2 hours and reach Duglha. Short day, sure, my guide says we will take a 1 1/2 trek up and then
back down to rest and have dinner. All part of acclimatizing. Doing fine in that regard. No headaches or nausea thus far.
I guess the hypoxic training tent is paying off.

h3. Day 9

We leave Dingboche for our trek to Lobuche. The climb continues as we approach Base Camp. Lobuche is at 16,207ft.
Just keep climbing. Some of the uphill stuff is really steep and exhausting. Ever see those movies of mountaineers and their
moving ever so slowly one step at a time. Well that's me right and not at the top of any mountain. Sleeping is not any better.
Really tough to get any long stretches on continues sleep. Tomorrow is the BIG Day!!!

h3. Day 10

We leave Lobuche at 7am for the toughest day of the journey. We trek for 5 hours to Gorak Shep. Really brutal, steep and
rocky climbing. We have lunch and then we begin the trek to Base Camp. 2 1/2 hours and we finally reach Base Camp. The sight
is something. All different colored tents all strewn out on the Kumbu Glacier. We can see expeditioners practicing on the Glacier,
climbing up some peeks and then rapelling down. I take pictures of the 2 shirts I brought up with me with the names of the people
who we are memorializing. It's too windy to hold the shirts up so my and I place the shirts on the Everest Base Camp rock  to take
the photograph. My guide and I then strung ou the prayer flags that I bought in Kathmandu. We photograph the hanging of the prayer
flags with my nephews Gro Pro camera. We leave Base Camp with a hugh sense of accompishment. Now it's back to Gorak Shep
for the night. We get back at 5:30 so it's been a long strenuous day.

Love and Peace to all;  
Lou

h2. E-Mail: April 21, 2012 10:25 AM GMT (06:25 AM EDT)

In Kathmandu now waiting for my flight home tomorrow.

Here are the following updates;

h3. Trekking day 11 April 15th:

Exhausted from yesterday's long trek to Base Camp but we did it.
This morning up at 4:30 am to begin another long exhausting. First we left at 5am to
climb Kala Patthar, elev 18,209ft. Climbing with head lamps on to get up there for the
sunrise.  It was too early for the kitchen to be open so I just
took my water bottle that was at room temperature (not sure how cold it was last night
in my but I slept in my bag with clothes on, gloves, and a hat) instead of having the kitchen
staff put how water in the bottle per usual. Anyway half way my water is frozen, not solid
yet but still can't get water out of it. Climb was really steep and very difficult. Was a little
disappointed in the fact that Everest is still off in the distance and you can only see the top
part. Anyway got the pictures and we came back down to Gorak Shep to have breakfast and
to Periche as we begin the return trek to LUKLA. We get to Periche at 5pm so it's been a long
hard day, also we trekked the last two hours in a driving snow storm. Had dinner at 6:30pm
then off to bed to rest for tomorrow.
 
h3. Trekking day 12 April 16th

Today we trek to Tengboche. Up at 6am, usual time, and begin our trek at
at 8am. The trek today is very difficult. Even though we are on our way back the last 2 hours
to Tengboche are steep and difficult. We arrive at 3:30pm. Get settled into our rooms and then
go to visit the monastery here. Very popular place that actually has 14 monks living there. We
take pictures and go back to our rooms to rest. Have dinner at 6:30pm in bed by 8pm to ready
for tomorrow. Today was a clear day so I took many pictures. The scenery is so spectacular you
could be taking pictures every 10 minutes. A scarry thing happened to me about 2 hours out from
Periche. Lucky I'm alive to talk about it. My guide is walking in front of me as usual and he points
out to me about 6 grazing Yaks heading down the side of the mountain towards our trail. He was
calling out to me because the lead Yak had two small calfs following her. As I continued it became
apparent that we were about to reach the narrow trail at the same time. I paused, the Yak paused,
I'm thinking there's not enough room on this trail for the two of us so I decide to cut in front of her as
quickly as I could. My guide watches in horror as the Yak takes one step towards me and swings her
head at me. Her right horn hits me in the thigh(still have the bruise) but fortunately it was a glazing
blow as I was trying to scurry by her. My guide thought the Yak had either gored my hip or buttocks.
Thank God the curved part of that horn hit me and not the tip. Also the glancing blow kind of help
propel me forward rather than sideways which would have been certain death as I would have been
knocked of the trail and down the steep side of the mountain. Wow, can't believe how close that came.
We talked about the incident the rest of way on to Tengboche.
 
h3. Trekking day 13 April 17th:

This morning we leave Tengboche for Namche Bazaar. Another fairly long trek
as I'm walking slower now. Just physically tired of the day after day exhausting up and down trekking.
We walk down as we leave Tengboche but as the trail winds around the mountain side we find ourselves
trekking upwards again even though Namche is at a lower altitude. Again the day is clear so many Photo
opportunities. I will have to sort through them all when I get back because I think many pictures are simply
more of the same. Spectacular scenery but similar as well. We reach Namche at 4pm. We stayed at the same
lodge as we did on the way up. Had the opportunity to go to an internet cafe there and use SKYPE to talk to
Joyce. It was good talking to her. Having no phone has left me feeling so Isolated. People who have working
phones are talking all the time. My wonderful Verizon Global Phone hasn't worked since I got here. After the
Internet cafe visit and went to my room. Took a HOT shower. It's an enclosed outdoor shower but it's been awhile
(since we were here on trekking day 2) so it felt so good. Had dinner then off to bed to rest for tomorrow.
 
Love and Peace to all;
Louis